hello everyone and welcome to this
edition of the think tank I want to talk
about gold and the past few weeks gold
has had a substantial downturn it's gone
down a lot I mean I went from around the
1700s all the way down to around 15 66
which was the lower that was set on the
15th so you know this is a big move down
and a lot of people are asking me say
hey is this it is this the gold bubble
hair is this it my answer to that
question is I don't think so I don't
think gold isn't a bubble I think this
is a correction another correction that
what happened you know nothing goes up
in a straight line I look at all markets
they fluctuate even when you have strong
bullish markets near our Corrections
within those ball moves and then the
market resumes its its move let's move
upward and I think that's what you have
in here in gold and the reason I say
that is simple because if you look back
in September back in September sixth
which wasn't that long ago gold made our
record high and I'm just looking at the
februari contract the gold februari
contract februari delivery it made an
all-time high of around 1925 and then
shortly after in the same month
September 26th made an all-time low for
the year at around 15 43 now that's a
substantial move in a short period of
time a lot bigger than what happened
recently now if there was any bubble
talk it should have been then right what
happened not only does gold not go down
more it actually comes back very strong
it actually made another it did the
highest it got from now and from
September sixth was 1806 and it made
that high in late last month the eighth
of November so that's that's a pretty
strong government so I mean if goal is a
bubble and one that came back like that
you know
kiss that are in a bubble don't do that
and you see catastrophic moon something
real real real collapses like you saw
like in the housing market look what
happened to housing prices to mean
that's wobble and that is that bubble
that was a bottle I mean he saw it
serious serious moves down but from
market to come back quickly like this
you know that's not what a market that's
a bubble does so you know you see this
move down it's another correction that's
why is it going down a lot of reasons
you know you have short-term traders you
have profit taking your expiration and
that's the reason I mean a lot of
markets have Corrections and I see this
as a correction i do not think it's a
bubble at all and the reason i don't
think it's a bubble is because you have
to look at the unlined fundamentals
markets move because they have strong
fundamentals if they're moving upward if
they have bearish fundamentals they're
going to move downward and if you look
at the environment right now we have
high deficits a lot of spending we have
inflation and the proof just look around
you look at all commodities look at the
crb index this year you know you see
commodities of course the board this
year that I've made record highs this
year so it's not just cold lot of other
markets doing it and then one way to
look at gold as far as the price is to
look at the value of money if you have
inflation the value of money is going
down so it's not necessarily the price
of gold going up it's just the money's
worth less the prices of things go up
that's what inflation is that's really
the definition of inflation it's the
money losing value so what you have is
the price of gold reflecting that lower
value of money and that's why gold is
having a high price one of the reasons
something else they can affect the price
of gold and I don't know why I don't
know much about this on the news gold
has industrial purposes it's used in
cell phones its use
in appliances it's used in PDAs and
calculated is used in computers it's use
an aerospace they use gold in satellites
as medical uses using dentistry so it
has a lot of industrial you send it's
very high demand for it and here's
something else to consider a lot of I
mean how many cell phones have gold in
them and how many cell phones already
recycled so I mean you know you're
talking about factors that can make the
price of gold go up not just because of
what i was talking about fiscally and
the fact that gold is looked at his
money I mean it has been for thousands
of years we used to have a gold standard
so that's one thing it's affecting the
price of gold because of what's happened
with inflation but then you have the
industrial demand and then of course you
have another demand and that's jewelry
look at all the jewelry that's made of
gold and here's something else I want to
talk about if you look at other
commodities right even the ones that we
depend on so much like wheat corn and
you know grains that are grown you know
farmer can go out and grow it I mean you
can actually go out there and grow corn
you can grow wheat chicken grow old you
have to find it and you got a mind that
it's difficult it's expensive it's labor
intensive and that's built into the
price as well so I mean it's a very very
important metal it's very desired it's
where it's beautiful and and this is
these factors what's going to contribute
to the increase in the price of gold so
they answered I mean my opinion no I
don't think gold is on a bubble I think
because of the current environment and
then of course you get on the industrial
demand for it I think gold over the long
term it's going to continue to go up so
that's my opinion and that is the
perspective of the think tank I would
like to know your perspective please
leave your comments and thank you for
tuning it